Encoding a CQRS Aggregate (#2358)
lagom/lagom: docs/manual/scala/guide/cluster/DomainModelling.md

# Domain Modelling

> We recommend reading [[Event Sourcing and CQRS|ES_CQRS]] as a prerequisite to this section.

Reviewer: This paragraph can be removed in favor of adding links in the text below.

> In this section we will guide you through all the necessary steps to model an [Aggregate](https://martinfowler.com/bliki/DDD_Aggregate.html), as defined in Domain-Driven Design, using Akka Persistence Typed and following the CQRS principles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section presents all the steps to model an [Aggregate](https://martinfowler.com/bliki/DDD_Aggregate.html), as defined in Domain-Driven Design, using [Akka Persistence Typed](https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka/current/typed/persistence.html) and following the [[CQRS|ES_CQRS]] principles embraced by Lagom. While Akka Persistence Typed provides an API for building event-sourced actors, the same does not necessarily apply for CQRS Aggregates. To build CQRS applications, we need to use a few rules in our design.
```

Reviewer 2: @marcospereira consider using batched suggestions (not sure if the suggester or the owner of the PR are meant to use them, though)

> Lagom embraces Event Sourcing and CQRS by promoting the usage of Akka Persistence Typed in combination the CQRS principle. Akka Persistence Typed provides an API for building event sourced actors, but not necessarily for CQRS Aggregates. To build CQRS applications we need to apply a few rules to our design.

Reviewer: I've merged this in the paragraph above.

> We will explain the API and concepts while building a simplified shopping cart model. A full-fledge shopping cart sample can be found on our [samples repository](https://github.com/lagom/lagom-samples/tree/1.6.x/shopping-cart/shopping-cart-scala).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section explains the API and concepts while building a simplified shopping cart model. You can find a full-fledge shopping cart sample on our [samples repository](https://github.com/lagom/lagom-samples/tree/1.6.x/shopping-cart/shopping-cart-scala).
```

> We will explain the API and concepts while building a simplified shopping cart model. A full-fledge shopping cart sample can be found on our [samples repository](https://github.com/lagom/lagom-samples/tree/1.6.x/shopping-cart/shopping-cart-scala).

Reviewer: Regarding the shopping-cart example, I think it would be better to use the same domain used in Lagom's persistence API docs. That way it will be easier for users to compare both examples.

Reviewer 2: IMHO, we should migrate the classic docs, then. We're moving everything to shopping-cart.

Author: My initial idea was to indeed use the BlogPost example.

My motivation to use the shopping cart, is that we can explain a few important aspects without forcing the hand. For instance, the "changing behavior" section doesn't really show how to model it because the blog post is too simple. Error handling is also not great with BlogPost, IMO.

Then I also thought that it would be a good idea to have shopping-cart everywhere. 

I would prefer not to migrate the classic docs right now. I'm ok in doing that later, but if we say that it must be a requirement to have them aligned, I would choose for the least-effort, being using BlogPost on the new docs.

Reviewer 2: It'd be ideal to have the classic docs using shopping cart, but it may be too much work. I like @renatocaval's points wrt to shopping cart being an example that easily helps demo some features.

I've reconsidered and the price to rewrite classic docs to use shopping cart may be too high. I think the best trade-off is to keep classic using blogpost and akka typed using shopping cart.

You will learn, how to:

> * model a CQRS Aggregate using Akka Persistence Typed

Reviewer: Not sure if you need to list all the items here or if it suffices to say something in the line of "you will learn how to create a persistence write-side using Akka Persistence Typed that is compatible with Lagom". The reason I'm in doubt about it is that it looks like this list is about things that should belong in Akka's documentation (for example "lookup instances on the cluster and interact with them").

Author: I will review that section. 

On the other hand, we are replacing the `PersistenceEntityRegistry` by `ClusterSharding`. So we need to talk about `ClusterSharding`. We need to register the entity and use it to lookup. 

Akka also mentions it, but it's not the only possible usage of Persistence. In Lagom, we want users to use it with `ClusterSharding`. That's one of the added values of Lagom. It makes clustering easier on dev-mode. 

Cluster sharding is also important to protect against data corruption in a multi-node setup.

* prepare its event journal to be queryable using event tags
* register the model on Akka's Cluster Sharding

> * look up instances on the cluster and iteract with them

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* look up instances on the cluster and interact with them
```

* define serializers for your commands, events and model state

> * understand the main configuation settings and their raison-être

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* understand the main configuration settings and their raison-être
```

Reviewer: > raison-être

![](https://media.giphy.com/media/lE5u6gdLEXA9W/giphy.gif)

Author: thereis a missing d', the expressino is raison d'être :-)

Reviewer 2: Please, add the cat-GIF to the docs.

> * understand the main configuation settings and their raison-être

Reviewer 2: I would remove this block, or maybe rewrite as a ToC to quickly navigate inside this page.

What I don't like about it as it currently is are expressions like:

- "prepare its event journal to be queryable using event tags" --> this can lead unfamiliar readers into thinking they'll be able to write arbitrary queries over the journal. I think you meant to add a bullet-point explaining why events need to be tagged, but the resulting expression can be read differently.
 - "register the model on Akka's Cluster Sharding" --> this uses `register` and could be rephrased to use `init` (which is the actual method in `clusterSharding`)
 - ...

My point being, while I like being listed what comes next, I think we can have a second pass at this ToC when the rest is fully written down and do a rewrite.

PS: I haven't done a review of all the page, yet.

## Encoding the model

 We will start by defining the rules of our shopping cart.

* a shopping cart starts empty, gets items added to it and can be either cancelled or checkedout
* an empty shopping cart can't be checkedout
* a cancelled or checkedout can't have new items added to it
* items are simplified to a `name` and a `quantity`
* when you re-add an item, you override the exisitng by change its quantity

> * you delete an item by updating its quantity to 0

Reviewer 2: Ok, now, as a reader, I'm getting a bit lost with so many bullet-point lists. 

I think The rules for `shopping-cart` should be a in a sample repo all demos and tutorials and other contents, can refer to. Having to add them on this page of the lagom docs is adding too much noise. I'm fine with keeping them for now, but it'd be great if we removed all this extra noise away.

Author: The goal was to explain the rules of the model that we will encode next. 

I'm ok to remove it. Let's re-evaluate when we have the model encoded.

### Typed protocol - Command, Event and State

> We will start by define our model in terms of Commands, Events and State.

Reviewer: Overall I think it is better to not use "we will" but instead be more neutral and directive. For example:

>  Start by defining your model in terms of Commands, Events, and State.

> The state of our shopping cart will be define as following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The state of the shopping cart will be defined as following:
```

```scala
/** Common Shopping Cart trait */
sealed trait ShoppingCart
/** A shopping cart starts as empty */
case object EmptyShoppingCart extends ShoppingCart
/** Once we add new items it becomes an open shopping cart */
case class OpenShoppingCart(items: Map[String, Int]) extends ShoppingCart
/** Once cancelled it reaches end-of-life and can't be used anymore */
case object CancelledShoppingCart extends ShoppingCart
/** Once checked-out it reaches end-of-life and can't be used anymore */
case object CheckedOutShoppingCart extends ShoppingCart
```

Next we define the commands that we can send to it. Each command has a `replyTo:ActorRef[R]` field where `R` is the reply that will be sent back to the caller. We will cover it in detail in a while.

```scala
// Replies
sealed trait Confirmation
sealed trait Accepted extends Confirmation
case object Accepted extends Accepted
final case class Rejected(reason: String) extends Confirmation

> final case class CurrentState(items: Map[String, Int]) extends ShoppingCartReply

Reviewer 2: `ShoppingCartReply` is not in the snippet. A left-over?

Reviewer 2: (nitpick) 
I just realised (probably that only happens on this code) that `case class CurrentState` doesn't contain the current state but the `items`. What will that containt when the state is `cancelled`? Could we rename `case class CurrentState` to something else?

Author: > ShoppingCartReply is not in the snippet. A left-over?

`ShoppingCartReply` is not needed anymore. This was a requirement when we needed to extend `ExpectedReply`. That's remove from Akka now.

> What will that containt when the state is cancelled? 

You are right about the state. That's an oversight. I will review it. What do you think about a simplified state class defined as `Cart(items: Map, status: String)`? 

> Could we rename case class CurrentState to something else?

Suggestions?

Author: @ignasi35, I realise now that I forgot to remove the last reference to `ShoppingCartReply` hence your comment. I will remove it. Not needed anymore as mentioned.

Author: I'm experimenting with `final case class CartState(items: Map[String, Int], status: String)`

and an explanation in the guide saying: "`CartState` is not the shopping-cart itself, but the representation we want to expose to the external world"

### Modelling Commands and Replies

Next we define the commands that we can send to it.

Each command defines a [reply](https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka/2.6/typed/persistence.html#replies) through a `replyTo: ActorRef[R]` field where `R` is the reply that will be sent back to the caller. Replies are used to communicate back if a command was accepted or rejected or to read the aggregate data (ie: read-only commands). It's also possible to have a mix of both, for example, if the command succeeds it returns some updated data; if it fails it returns a rejected message. Or you can have commands without replies (ie: fire-and-forget). This is a less common pattern in CQRS Aggregate modeling though and not covered in this example.

In Akka Typed, it's not possible to return an exception to the caller. All communication between the actor and the caller must be done via the `replyTo:ActorRef[R]` passed in the command. Therefore, if you want to signal a rejection, you most have it encoded in your reply protocol.

```scala
// Replies
sealed trait Confirmation
sealed trait Accepted extends Confirmation

> case object Accepted extends Accepted

Reviewer 2: (future improvement)

I remember you taught me this idiom and the reason (avoid `Accepted.type`) but I'm not sure all readers will be familiar with it and it could raise some questions. It'd be great to add a link to some blogpost/docs about why `trait` + `object` is useful.

Author: I can re-think this a little further. I remember to have hit an issue with play-json serializers once. I don't remember what it was. It's possible that we make it a class for the sake of simplicity. If we need to add a link or explain why, maybe we can just avoid the issue.

final case class Rejected(reason: String) extends Confirmation
final case class CartState(items: Map[String, Int], status: String)

// Commands

> sealed trait ShoppingCartCommand

Reviewer: I think you are right and this also matches Akka style guide: https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka/2.6/typed/style-guide.html

> final case class UpdateItem(productId: String,

Author: Well, when you are adjusting the quantity yes. That same command is used to add an item, update the quantity and remove. 

The right operations would be `AddItem`, `RemoveItem` and `AdjustItemQuantity`. 

The model is kept simple on purpose, but I agree that we can do better than that. I will send a PR on this.

                            quantity: Int,
                            replyTo: ActorRef[Confirmation])
  extends ShoppingCartCommand

final case class Checkout(replyTo: ActorRef[Confirmation])
  extends ShoppingCartCommand

final case class Get(replyTo: ActorRef[CartState])
```

> Note that we have different kinds of replies: `Confirmation` used when we want to modify the state. A modification request can be `Accepted` or `Rejected`. And `CartState` used when we want to read the state of the shopping cart. Keep in mind that `ShoppingCartSummary` is not the shopping cart itself, but the representation we want to expose to the external world.

Author: @WadeWaldron, you are right. It was initially `CartState`. I missed this find and replace. I will fix. 

I agree about the extra complexity without clear reason. For Java is certainly a must, unless made it immutable. 

My motivation was to have a complex type with two variants (`OpenShoppingCart` and `CheckedOutShoppingCart`) so we can explain the topic of changing behavior and treat it as a FSM. Then the summary is a simplified version of it. 

I would like to maintain it, but maybe we should find something that make it more obvious.

> Note that we have different kinds of replies: `Confirmation` used when we want to modify the state. A modification request can be `Accepted` or `Rejected`. And `CartState` used when we want to read the state of the shopping cart. Keep in mind that `ShoppingCartSummary` is not the shopping cart itself, but the representation we want to expose to the external world.

Reviewer 3: I think it's okay to maintain it as is, if we explicitly call out why we are doing it. Some additional state we don't want to use would help, but it's not required.

### Modelling Events

Next, we define the events that our model will persist. The events must extend Lagom's `AggregateEvent`. This is important for tagging events. We will cover this topic a little further.

```scala
sealed trait ShoppingCartEvent extends AggregateEvent[ShoppingCartEvent] {
  def aggregateTag = ShoppingCartEvent.Tag
}

final case class ItemUpdated(productId: String, quantity: Int)
  extends ShoppingCartEvent

> final case object CheckedOut extends ShoppingCartEvent

Author: Yes, they will be tagged which make it clear that is from the shopping cart. We also recommend only one domain per microservice. 

I would also prefer to leave these things to the user to choose from. That's not an application, but a guide and the goal is to explain how to use the API and restrict it to have a sound Aggregate.

```

### Defining Commands Handlers

> Once you define your protocol in terms of Commands, Replies, Events and State, you need to specify the business rules of your model. The command handlers define how to handle each incoming command, which validations must be applied, and finally, which events will be persisted if any.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once you define your protocol in terms of Commands, Replies, Events and State, you need to specify the business rules of your model. The command handlers define how to handle each incoming command, which validations must be applied, and finally, which events will be persisted, if any.
```

Reviewer 2: I added a comma at the very end `[,] if any`.

> You can encoding it in different ways. The [recommended style](https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka/2.6/typed/persistence-style.html#command-handlers-in-the-state) is to add the command handlers in your state classes. Since `ShoppingCart` have two state classes extensions, it makes sense to add the repective business rules validation on each state class. Each possible state will define how each command should be handled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can encode it in different ways. The [recommended style](https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka/2.6/typed/persistence-style.html#command-handlers-in-the-state) is to add the command handlers in your state classes. Since `ShoppingCart` has two state class extensions, it makes sense to add the respective business rule validations on each state class. Each possible state will define how each command should be handled.
```

I got a bit confused with plurals. I've made a suggestion but I'm not sure it's correct either.

```scala
sealed trait ShoppingCart  {
  def applyCommand(cmd: ShoppingCartCommnad): ReplyEffect[ShoppingCartEvent, ShoppingCart]
}

case class OpenShoppingCart(items: Map[String, Int]) extends ShoppingCart {
  def applyCommand(cmd: ShoppingCartCommnad) =
    cmd match {
      case UpdateItem(_, qty, replyTo) if qty < 0 =>

>         Effect.reply(replyTo)(Rejected("Quantity must be greater than zero"))

Author: There is no Actor anymore, it's a Behavior. ShoppingCart is not implementing Actor. It does have a dependency on Akka API, the `Effect`. We have discussed a few times and decided that we won't create an API on top of the Akka API. Lagom should embrace it and not try to hide it. 

One can always abstract it away. For example, have a command handler that returns a `List[Event]`, but then you will need some framework code to take it and translate to an `Effect`. I find this good and elegant, and would to the same if I was building an application. But Lagom, won't provide it out-of-the-box. We could eventually write a blog to show how to do it. 

> The command isn't really being applied to the state in this case. 

I agree but that's also a very common way for talking about commands.

>       // an item is delete by setting it's quantity to 00

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      // an item is deleted by setting it's quantity to 0
```

      case UpdateItem(productId, 0, replyTo) if !items.contains(productId) =>
        Effect.reply(replyTo)(Rejected("Cannot delete item that is not already in cart"))

      case UpdateItem(productId, quantity, replyTo) =>
        Effect
          .persist(ItemUpdated(productId, quantity))

>           .thenReply(replyTo) { updatedCart => // updated cart is state updated after applying ItemUpdated

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
          .thenReply(replyTo) { updatedCart => // `updatedCart` is the state updated after applying ItemUpdated
```

            Accepted
          }

      // check it out
      case Checkout(replyTo) =>
        Effect
          .persist(CheckedOut)

>           .thenReply(replyTo){ updatedCart => // updated cart is state updated after applying CheckedOut

Reviewer 2: similar suggestion:
```suggestion
          .thenReply(replyTo){ updatedCart => // `updatedCart` is the state updated after applying CheckedOut
```

            Accepted
          }

      case Get(replyTo) =>
        Effect.reply(replyTo)(CartState(items, status = "open"))
  }
}

case class CheckedOutShoppingCart(items: Map[String, Int]) extends ShoppingCart {
  def applyCommand(cmd: ShoppingCartCommnad) =
    cmd match {

>       // CheckedOut is a final state, not mutations allowed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      // CheckedOut is a final state, no mutations allowed
```

      case UpdateItem(_, _, replyTo) =>
        Effect.reply(replyTo)(Rejected("Cannot update a checked-out cart"))

>       // CheckedOut is a final state, not mutations allowed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      // CheckedOut is a final state, no mutations allowed
```

      case Checkout(replyTo) =>
        Effect.reply(replyTo)(Rejected("Cannot checkout a checked-out cart"))

      // it is allowed to read it's state though
      case Get(replyTo) =>
        Effect
        .reply(replyTo)(CartState(items, status = "checked-out"))
    }

}
```

> Command handlers are the meat of the model. They encode the business rules of your model and act as a guardian of the model consistency. Any mutation must be validated by it. However, they don't apply the mutations. Instead, they express the mutations in the form of persisted events.

Reviewer 2: "Any mutation must be validated by it. However, they don't apply the mutations. Instead, they express the mutations in the form of persisted events."

This was a bit confusing. How about:

```suggestion
Command handlers are the meat of the model. They encode the business rules of your model and act as a guardian of the model consistency. Command handler must first validate the incoming command can mutate the current state into a valid new state. However, the command handler will not produce the mutation and, instead, the command handler will express the mutations in the form of persisted events.
```

> Because an Aggregate is intended to model a consistency boundary, it's not recommended to validate commands using data that's not available in scope. Any decision should be solely based on the data passed in the commands and the state of the aggregate. Any external call should be considered a smell because it means that the aggregate is not in full control of the invariants it's supposed to be protecting.

Author: I would then have another section on the docs explain a few patterns and eventually also showing some anti-patterns and explaining why they should be avoided. 

The main guide must stay as short as possible and straightforward.

> Because an Aggregate is intended to model a consistency boundary, it's not recommended to validate commands using data that's not available in scope. Any decision should be solely based on the data passed in the commands and the state of the aggregate. Any external call should be considered a smell because it means that the aggregate is not in full control of the invariants it's supposed to be protecting.

Reviewer 2: +1 to having a separate section. I would even name it such that it draws attention: "Common CQRS pitfalls" or "CQRS/ES antipatterns" or something.

Then, list (1) accessing remote data from the command/event handler, (2) usgin generic (CRUD-like) events `Updated`, ...

> You may have notice that there two ways of sending back a reply. Using `Effect.reply` and `Effect.persist(...).thenReply`. The first one is available directly on `Effect` and should be used when you reply without persisting any event. In this case, you can use the available state in scope because it's guaranteed to not have changed. The second variant should be used when you have persisted one or more events. The updated state is then made available to you on the function used to define the reply.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There two ways of sending back a reply: using `Effect.reply` and `Effect.persist(...).thenReply`. The first one is available directly on `Effect` and should be used when you reply without persisting any event. In this case, you can use the available state in scope because it's guaranteed to not have changed. The second variant should be used when you have persisted one or more events. The updated state is then made available to you on the function used to define the reply.
```

> There two ways of sending back a reply: using `Effect.reply` and `Effect.persist(...).thenReply`. The first one is available directly on `Effect` and should be used when you reply without persisting any event. In this case, you can use the available state in scope because it's guaranteed to not have changed. The second variant should be used when you have persisted one or more events. The updated state is then made available to you on the function used to define the reply.

Reviewer 2: Oh, gods, there's an error in the suggestion I made earlier:

```suggestion
There are two ways of sending back a reply: using `Effect.reply` and `Effect.persist(...).thenReply`. The first one is available directly on `Effect` and should be used when you reply without persisting any event. In this case, you can use the available state in scope because it's guaranteed to not have changed. The second variant should be used when you have persisted one or more events. The updated state is then made available to you on the function used to define the reply.
```

> You may run side-effects inside the command handler. Akka Persistence Typed offers an API for it. Please refer to [Akka documentation](https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka/2.6/typed/persistence.html#effects-and-side-effects) for detailed information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You may run side-effects inside the command handler. Please refer to [Akka documentation](https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka/2.6/typed/persistence.html#effects-and-side-effects) for detailed information.
```

### Defining the Event Handlers

The event handlers are used to mutate the state of the aggregate by applying the events to it. Event handlers must be pure functions as they will be used when instantiating the aggregate and replaying the event journal. Similar to the command handlers, a [recommended style](https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka/2.6/typed/persistence-style.html#command-handlers-in-the-state) is to add them in the state classes.

```scala
sealed trait ShoppingCart  {

>   def applyEvent(evt: ShoppingCartEvent): ShoppingCart

Author: Actually, we can't do it. The code as is now is directly added to the markdown, but we will move to a real scala file that gets compiles and fragments are extracted to the docs. 

When I move the files, I will add comments like in:

```scala
sealed trait ShoppingCart {
    def applyEvent(evt: ShoppingCartEvent): ShoppingCart
    // other methods omitted for brevity
}
```

Btw, we also need to add the imports. That will be part of another PR.

>   def applyEvent(evt: ShoppingCartEvent): ShoppingCart

Reviewer 3: Yeah, a comment works just as well.

}

case class OpenShoppingCart(items: Map[String, Int]) extends ShoppingCart {

  def applyEvent(evt: ShoppingCartEvent): ShoppingCartState =
    evt match {
      case ItemUpdated(productId, quantity) => updateItem(productId, quantity)
      case CheckedOut => CheckedOutShoppingCart(items)
    }

  private def updateItem(productId: String, quantity: Int) =
    quantity match {
      case 0 => copy(items = items - productId)
      case _ => copy(items = items + (productId -> quantity))
    }

}

> // CheckedOut is a final state, there can be any event after its checked out

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// CheckedOut is a final state, there can't be any event after its checked out
```

🤔 Hmmm, I'm not sure what is it you are tr4ying to say. Are you implying any event is valid, or did you actually want to say that there "can't" be any event (as I suggest)?

## Encoding the model

Start by defining your model in terms of Commands, Events, and State.

The state of the shopping cart is defined as following:

### Modelling the State

```scala
/** Common Shopping Cart trait */
sealed trait ShoppingCart
/** Once we add new items it becomes an open shopping cart */
case class OpenShoppingCart(items: Map[String, Int]) extends ShoppingCart
/** Once checked-out it reaches end-of-life and can't be used anymore */
case class CheckedOutShoppingCart(items: Map[String, Int]) extends ShoppingCart
```

Note that we are modelling it using a common trait `ShoppingCart` and two possible states modelled as extensions of `ShoppingCart`. This is a recommended technique whenever your model go through different state transitions. As we will see later, each state encodes which commands it can handle, which events it can persist and to which other states it can transition.

### Modelling Commands and Replies

Next we define the commands that we can send to it.

> Each command has a `replyTo:ActorRef[R]` field where `R` is the reply that will be sent back to the caller. Replies are used to communicate back if a command was accepted or rejected or to read the aggregate data (ie: read-only commands). It's also possible to have a mix of both, for example, if the command succeeds it returns some updated data, if it fails it returns a rejected message. It's also possible to have commands without replies (ie: fire-and-forget). This is a less common pattern in CQRS Aggregate modelling though and not covered in this example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each command has a `replyTo: ActorRef[R]` field where `R` is the reply that will be sent back to the caller. Replies are used to communicate back if a command was accepted or rejected or to read the aggregate data (ie: read-only commands). It's also possible to have a mix of both, for example, if the command succeeds it returns some updated data; if it fails it returns a rejected message. Or you can have commands without replies (ie: fire-and-forget). This is a less common pattern in CQRS Aggregate modeling though and not covered in this example.
```

In Akka Typed, it's not possible to return an exception to the caller. All communication between the actor and the caller must be done via the `replyTo:ActorRef[R]` passed in the command. Therefore, if you want to signal a rejection, you most have it encoded in your reply protocol.

```scala
// Replies
sealed trait Confirmation
sealed trait Accepted extends Confirmation
case object Accepted extends Accepted
final case class Rejected(reason: String) extends Confirmation
final case class CartState(items: Map[String, Int], status: String)

// Commands
sealed trait ShoppingCartCommand
final case class UpdateItem(productId: String,
                            quantity: Int,
                            replyTo: ActorRef[Confirmation])
  extends ShoppingCartCommand

final case class Checkout(replyTo: ActorRef[Confirmation])
  extends ShoppingCartCommand

final case class Get(replyTo: ActorRef[CartState])
```

> Note that we have different kinds of replies: `Confirmation` used when we want to modify the state. A modification request can be `Accepted` or `Rejected`. And `CartState` used when we want to read the state of the shopping cart. `CartState` is not the shopping cart itself, but the representation we want to expose to the external world.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that we have different kinds of replies: `Confirmation` used when we want to modify the state. A modification request can be `Accepted` or `Rejected`. And `CartState` used when we want to read the state of the shopping cart. Keep in mind that `CartState` is not the shopping cart itself, but the representation we want to expose to the external world.
```

### Modelling Events

> Next we define the events that our model will be persisting. The events must extend Lagom's `AggregateEvent`. This is import for tagging the events. A topic we will cover a little further.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, we define the events that our model will persist. The events must extend Lagom's `AggregateEvent`. This is important for tagging events. We will cover this topic a little further.
```

```scala
sealed trait ShoppingCartEvent extends AggregateEvent[ShoppingCartEvent] {
  def aggregateTag = ShoppingCartEvent.Tag
}

final case class ItemUpdated(productId: String, quantity: Int)
  extends ShoppingCartEvent

final case object CheckedOut extends ShoppingCartEvent
```

### Defining Commands Handlers

> Once you define your protocol in terms of Commands, Replies, Events and State, you need to define the buiseness rules of your model. The command handlers define how to handle each incoming command, which validations must be applied and finally which events will be persisted, if any.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you define your protocol in terms of Commands, Replies, Events and State, you need to specify the business rules of your model. The command handlers define how to handle each incoming command, which validations must be applied, and finally, which events will be persisted if any.
```

> You can encoding it in different ways. One popular style is to add the command handlers in your model classes. Since `ShoppingCart` have two state classes extensions, it makes sense to add the repective business rules validation on each state class. Each possible state will define how each command should be handled.

Reviewer: I think that even more than "popular", this is the style guide recommended by Akka:

https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka/2.6/typed/persistence-style.html#event-handlers-in-the-state

It could be interesting to have a link to that page too.

Because an Aggregate is intended to model a consistency boundary, it's not recommended to validate commands using data that's not available in scope. Any decision should be solely based on the data passed in the commands and the state of the aggregate. Any external call should be considered a smell because it means that the aggregate is not in full control of the invariants it's supposed to be the guardian.

You may have notice that there two ways of sending back a reply. Using `Effect.reply` and `Effect.persist(...).thenReply`. The first one is available directly on `Effect` and should be used when you reply without persisting any event. In this case, you can use the available state in scope because it's guaranteed to not have changed. The second variant should be used when you have persisted one or more events. The updated state is then made available to you on the function used to define the reply.

> You may run side-effects inside the command handler. Akka Persistence Typed offers an API for it. However, be aware that any side-effect has at-most-once semantic. They are run after the events are persisted. In the face of a crash, it may happen that your events are persisted, but the side-effects are not executed. If that happens, they won't be retried. You define side-effect using the `Effect.persist(...).thenRun(callback: State => Unit)` method on the `Effect`.

Reviewer: Do we need to explain these details here or can we link to https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka/2.6/typed/persistence.html#effects-and-side-effects?
